In this section, we are going to look at the terminal prompt, being able to use a terminal emulator
is a necessity if you intend to administer a Linux server after logging into your server.
There are two different prompts.
You must be aware of the route user prompt and the non route user prompt.
Let's look at the prompt in more detail.
Firstly, you have the user name that is the user name of the current user at the top route.
You are then logged in as the route user.
User name is just a generic name I am using.
When we set up a server, we will add a non user to the server.
Whatever username you decide on will be displayed where user name is now appearing.
The next part of the prompt is the server hostname.
That name can be changed.
We will look at that later in the course where you see the told.
The prompt will display your current location in the file system.
If you have, for example, changed to a different directory, that directory will be displayed.
Whether told is currently being displayed, the told indicates a user's home directory.
If ever the told is displayed in the terminal prompt.
Your current location in the file system is that user's home directory.
The home directory is where a user stores any information that that user has created.
The hash or the hash indicates that you are logged in and working as the root user.
The dollar sign indicates you are logged in as a non root user 99 percent of the time your prompt will
display a dollar sign.
Finally, we have the cursor.
That is where you type the commands.
The appearance of the cursor can be changed.
Here are a few examples of the terminal prompt at the top username Andrew Hostname course VPs is two
told Tollerson told indicates the user Andrew is currently in his home directory.
The dollar sign indicates Andrew is a non route user.
In the second example, the user Andrew has changed.
Directories to the Etsy directory noticed the change in the prompt.
It's no longer told.
It is now slash Etsy.
It's displaying Andrew's current location in the file system.
The last two examples of the route user.
There is a hash rather than a dollar sign.
The user name is Root.
The hostname is the same course VPI is too.
And as the user changes from one location to another in the file system, so the location changes in
the prompt.
In this lecture we looked at the terminal prompt and the information that the prompt is displaying to
you.